Update rLogin docs (#744)
rsksmart/devportal: rif/rlogin/authentication.md

---
layout: rsk
title: rLogin - integrated backend authentication
---

> rLogin also integrates an authentication model based on the user's digital signature capabilities when connected to their wallets. The model is based on the SSI standards of DIDs, VCs and VC JSON Schemas

Reviewer: suggestion: we could link to these standards directly, or link to a page within the rLogin docs that describes how these standards are implemented.

Author: ```suggestion
rLogin also integrates an authentication model based on the user's digital signature capabilities when connected to their wallets. The model is based on the SSI standards of DIDs, VCs and VC JSON Schemas

Read more about standards in [RIF Identity specs](../../identity/specs/)
```

![identity-30](/rif/rlogin/assets/identity-30.png)

This will require you to install the authentication library in your backend. First follow [backend guidelines](../libraries/express-did-auth) to integrate the authentication model and then just add the backend url to rLogin.

- Sample app: https://data-vault-sample.rlogin.identity.rifos.org/
- Repo: https://github.com/rsksmart/rLogin-sample-apps/tree/main/permissioned-app

### Open flavor

> For apps that require authenticating users by their account. Configure the backend url in rLogin and the pop-up will prompt users to sign an access code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For apps that wish to authenticate users by their account. Configure the backend URL in rLogin, and their wallet will prompt users to sign an access code in a pop-up.
```

```typescript
const rLogin = new RLogin({
    providerOptions: { /*... */ },
    rpcUrls,
    supportedChains,
    backendUrl: 'http://url-to-backend',
})
```

### Data Vault flavor

> Additional, you can integrate SSI and request users for specific information such as their email. This flavor will integrate RIF Data Vault and enable you to operate with the user centric cloud system from your dApp.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, you can integrate SSI. This can be used to request users for specific information such as their email. This flavor will integrate RIF Data Vault, and enables you to operate with the user centric cloud system from your dApp.
```
